---
layout: post
date: 2015-09-11 14:14:00
title: MIDI
tags: [music]
---

Muscial Instrument Digital Interface (MIDI) is a standard for electronic music instruments, devices and computers to communicate with each other with respect to musical information. MIDI carries not just pitch, volume and timing information but also vibrato, panning, cues etc.

The most basic setup involves at least a controller or a sequencer, and a synthesizer. A controller such as a keyboard allows for live performances while a sequencer records or edits data for playback at a later time. The controller by itself cannot produce any sounds since it is only passing along MIDI information. The synthesizer takes input from the controller or sequencer and generates sound based on the information received as well as other settings.

Logic Pro X is a sequencer which allows for recording from instruments as well as directly editing MIDI data in the Piano Roll view. Logic Pro X also has tools found under the [MIDI Transform](https://support.apple.com/kb/PH13163?locale=en_US) window which make it easier to edit many notes at once such as the Transpose transform which adds or subtracts the specified number of semitones from the selected data. An interesting transform is the Humanize transform which "adds a random value to the position, velocity, and length of selected note events". This is mentioned as being "useful on rhythmic parts" in order to make strictly quantized or manually entered notes sound less mechanical and more like they have been actually played by an imperfect human.