---
layout: post
date: 2015-04-16 18:01:55
title: Mods
tags: [programming, modding, Skyrim, DragonNest]
---
Recently I went back to check on my mods over at [DNModz](http://www.dnmodz.com), a forum for Dragon Nest mods. It's been 2 years since I went back, things have changed of course. I don't think I'll continue modding for DN though it's too restrictive, not to mention its really cartoonish art style. Yet, I'm still kinda proud of my mods there mainly cos they're the first significant mods I've made so check it out if you play Dragon Nest, or even if you don't :)

Mod is a short-form for modifications, referring to user-created changes made to games. A well-known game that has its origins in modding is Counter-Strike, originally a fan-made mod of the game Half-Life. The mod eventually became so popular the creators of Half-Life decided to turn it into a game of its own.

My interest in programming also stemmed from an interest in modding at first. One of the first games I played was Command and Conquer Red Alert 2. I got bored after a while and looked for ways to make the game more interesting. Red Alert 2 was (is?) a really easy game to mod, properties for many objects in-game were stored in text files; the easiest mods required nothing but a text editor. It is limited in its powers though and that's where I learnt, however little, about programming.

I also just started playing The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim, drawn, of course, by its legendary mod-ability. Right now I'm just conflicted on whether to dive straight into modding Skyrim or focusing on getting to know the game better. I already failed to play the game vanilla, without mods, once through; mods are just amazing. Don't believe me? Head on over to Youtube and take a look at one of the numerous Skyrim mod videos out there.